README.md, before:

<div align="center">
  <picture>
    <source media="(prefers-color-scheme: light)" srcset="https://raw.githubusercontent.com/kagent-dev/kmcp/main/img/kmcp-logo-dark.svg" alt="kmcp" width="400">
    <source media="(prefers-color-scheme: dark)" srcset="https://raw.githubusercontent.com/kagent-dev/kmcp/main/img/kmcp-logo-light.svg" alt="kmcp" width="400">
    <img alt="kmcp" src="https://raw.githubusercontent.com/kagent-dev/kmcp/main/img/kmcp-logo-light.svg">
  </picture>
  <div>
    <a href="https://github.com/kagent-dev/kmcp/releases">
      <img src="https://img.shields.io/github/v/release/kagent-dev/kmcp?style=flat&label=Latest%20version" alt="Release">
    </a>
    <a href="https://github.com/kagent-dev/kmcp/actions/workflows/tag.yaml">
      <img src="https://github.com/kagent-dev/kmcp/actions/workflows/tag.yaml/badge.svg" alt="Build Status" height="20">
    </a>
      <a href="https://opensource.org/licenses/Apache-2.0">
      <img src="https://img.shields.io/badge/License-Apache2.0-brightgreen.svg?style=flat" alt="License: Apache 2.0">
    </a>
    <a href="https://github.com/kagent-dev/kmcp">
      <img src="https://img.shields.io/github/stars/kagent-dev/kmcp.svg?style=flat&logo=github&label=Stars" alt="Stars">
    </a>
      <a href="https://discord.gg/Fu3k65f2k3">
      <img src="https://img.shields.io/discord/1346225185166065826?style=flat&label=Join%20Discord&color=6D28D9" alt="Discord">
    </a>
  </div>
</div>


# kmcp

**A development platform and control plane for the Model Context Protocol (MCP)**

`kmcp` is a comprehensive toolkit for building, deploying, and managing Model Context Protocol (MCP) servers. It provides a command-line interface (CLI) for local development and a Kubernetes controller for production deployments, enabling a seamless transition from development to production.

## Core Concepts

`kmcp` is composed of three primary components that work together to provide a complete MCP server-management solution:

1.  **The `kmcp` CLI**: The CLI is your primary tool for local development. It allows you to scaffold new MCP projects, manage tools, build container images, and run your MCP server locally for testing and development.

2.  **The Kubernetes Controller**: The `kmcp` controller runs in your Kubernetes cluster and manages the lifecycle of your MCP server deployments. It uses a Custom Resource Definition (CRD) to define MCP servers as native Kubernetes objects, allowing you to manage them with familiar `kubectl` commands.

3.  **The Agent Gateway**: In a Kubernetes environment, `kmcp` deploys your MCP server behind a dedicated [Agent Gateway](https://www.solo.io/press-releases/solo-io-launches-agent-gateway-and-introduces-agent-mesh/). `kmcp` acts as a control plane for this gateway, configuring it to provide enterprise-grade features for your MCP server without requiring any changes to your code. These features include:
    -   Rate limiting
    -   Authorization and Authentication (AuthZ/N)
    -   Observability (tracing, logging, and metrics)
    -   Health checks
    -   TLS Termination

## Features (CLI Command Overview)

The `kmcp` CLI provides a set of commands to manage the entire lifecycle of your MCP server:

-   `kmcp init`: Scaffolds a new MCP server project. Supported frameworks include [FastMCP](https://github.com/jlowin/fastmcp) for Python and the [official MCP Go SDK](https://github.com/mark3labs/mcp-go) for Go.
-   `kmcp add-tool`: Adds a new tool to your project, automatically handling boilerplate and registration.
-   `kmcp run`: Runs the MCP server in a local development environment.
-   `kmcp build`: Builds a Docker image for your MCP server.
-   `kmcp install`: Installs the `kmcp` controller and CRDs on a Kubernetes cluster.
-   `kmcp deploy`: Deploys your MCP server to a Kubernetes cluster, placing it behind a pre-configured Agent Gateway.
-   `kmcp secrets`: Manages secrets for your MCP server deployment in Kubernetes.

## Architecture

The following diagram illustrates the `kmcp` workflow, from local development to a production deployment in Kubernetes:

```mermaid
graph TD
    subgraph Local Development
        A[Developer] -- kmcp init --> B(MCP Project);
        B -- kmcp add-tool --> B;
        B -- kmcp run --> C{Local MCP Server};
        A -- Edits Code --> B;
    end

    subgraph Production Deployment
        B -- kmcp build --> D[Docker Image];
        D -- kmcp deploy --> E(Kubernetes Cluster);
    end

    subgraph Kubernetes Cluster
        F[kmcp Controller] -- Manages --> G(MCP Server CRD);
        G -- Deploys --> H[Agent Gateway];
        H -- Proxies Traffic --> I[MCP Server Pod];
    end

    A -- Interacts with --> C;
    E -- Contains --> F;
    E -- Contains --> G;
    E -- Contains --> H;
    E -- Contains --> I;
```

## Get started

- [Quick Start](https://kagent.dev/docs/kmcp/quickstart)
- [Installation Guide](https://kagent.dev/docs/kmcp/deploy/install-controller)

## Documentation

The kmcp documentation is available at [kagent.dev/docs/kmcp](https://kagent.dev/docs/kmcp).

## 🤝 Contributing

We welcome contributions! Please see our [Contributing Guide](CONTRIBUTING.md) for details.

Thanks to all contributors!

<a href="https://github.com/kagent-dev/kmcp/graphs/contributors">
  <img src="https://contrib.rocks/image?repo=kagent-dev/kmcp" />
</a>

## 📈 Star History

<a href="https://www.star-history.com/#kagent-dev/kmcp&Date">
 <picture>
   <source media="(prefers-color-scheme: dark)" srcset="https://api.star-history.com/svg?repos=kagent-dev/kmcp&type=Date&theme=dark" />
   <source media="(prefers-color-scheme: light)" srcset="https://api.star-history.com/svg?repos=kagent-dev/kmcp&type=Date" />
   <img alt="Star history of kagent-dev/kmcp over time" src="https://api.star-history.com/svg?repos=kagent-dev/kmcp&type=Date" />
 </picture>
</a>

## 📄 License

Copyright 2025.

Licensed under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the "License");
you may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
You may obtain a copy of the License at

    http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0

Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software
distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS IS" BASIS,
WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied.
See the License for the specific language governing permissions and
limitations under the License.

## 🔗 Resources

- [Model Context Protocol Specification](https://spec.modelcontextprotocol.io/)
- [MCP Documentation](https://modelcontextprotocol.io/)
- [Anthropic's MCP Announcement](https://www.anthropic.com/news/model-context-protocol)
- [FastMCP Python Documentation](https://github.com/jlowin/fastmcp)

Commit message:

refactor & fix: Rename agentgateway to transport adapater and fix `kmcp deploy` http transport option (#65)
- Rename agentgateway to transport adapter
- Updated the generated python project template to support running
`streamable-http`
- Fixed the `kmcp deploy --transport http` option to work correctly with
mcp server running `streamable-http`

---------

Signed-off-by: JM Huibonhoa <jm.huibonhoa@solo.io>

README.md, after:

<div align="center">
  <picture>
    <source media="(prefers-color-scheme: light)" srcset="https://raw.githubusercontent.com/kagent-dev/kmcp/main/img/kmcp-logo-dark.svg" alt="kmcp" width="400">
    <source media="(prefers-color-scheme: dark)" srcset="https://raw.githubusercontent.com/kagent-dev/kmcp/main/img/kmcp-logo-light.svg" alt="kmcp" width="400">
    <img alt="kmcp" src="https://raw.githubusercontent.com/kagent-dev/kmcp/main/img/kmcp-logo-light.svg">
  </picture>
  <div>
    <a href="https://github.com/kagent-dev/kmcp/releases">
      <img src="https://img.shields.io/github/v/release/kagent-dev/kmcp?style=flat&label=Latest%20version" alt="Release">
    </a>
    <a href="https://github.com/kagent-dev/kmcp/actions/workflows/tag.yaml">
      <img src="https://github.com/kagent-dev/kmcp/actions/workflows/tag.yaml/badge.svg" alt="Build Status" height="20">
    </a>
      <a href="https://opensource.org/licenses/Apache-2.0">
      <img src="https://img.shields.io/badge/License-Apache2.0-brightgreen.svg?style=flat" alt="License: Apache 2.0">
    </a>
    <a href="https://github.com/kagent-dev/kmcp">
      <img src="https://img.shields.io/github/stars/kagent-dev/kmcp.svg?style=flat&logo=github&label=Stars" alt="Stars">
    </a>
      <a href="https://discord.gg/Fu3k65f2k3">
      <img src="https://img.shields.io/discord/1346225185166065826?style=flat&label=Join%20Discord&color=6D28D9" alt="Discord">
    </a>
  </div>
</div>


# kmcp

**A development platform and control plane for the Model Context Protocol (MCP)**

`kmcp` is a comprehensive toolkit for building, deploying, and managing Model Context Protocol (MCP) servers. It provides a command-line interface (CLI) for local development and a Kubernetes controller for production deployments, enabling a seamless transition from development to production.

## Core Concepts

`kmcp` is composed of three primary components that work together to provide a complete MCP server-management solution:

1.  **The `kmcp` CLI**: The CLI is your primary tool for local development. It allows you to scaffold new MCP projects, manage tools, build container images, and run your MCP server locally for testing and development.

2.  **The Kubernetes Controller**: The `kmcp` controller runs in your Kubernetes cluster and manages the lifecycle of your MCP server deployments. It uses a Custom Resource Definition (CRD) to define MCP servers as native Kubernetes objects, allowing you to manage them with familiar `kubectl` commands.

3.  **The Transport Adapter**: In a Kubernetes environment, `kmcp` deploys your MCP server behind a dedicated Transport Adapter. `kmcp` acts as a control plane for this adapter, configuring it to provide  features such as external traffic routing for your MCP server with support for multiple transport protocols without requiring any changes to your code.

## Features (CLI Command Overview)

The `kmcp` CLI provides a set of commands to manage the entire lifecycle of your MCP server:

-   `kmcp init`: Scaffolds a new MCP server project. Supported frameworks include [FastMCP](https://github.com/jlowin/fastmcp) for Python and the [official MCP Go SDK](https://github.com/mark3labs/mcp-go) for Go.
-   `kmcp add-tool`: Adds a new tool to your project, automatically handling boilerplate and registration.
-   `kmcp run`: Runs the MCP server in a local development environment.
-   `kmcp build`: Builds a Docker image for your MCP server.
-   `kmcp install`: Installs the `kmcp` controller and CRDs on a Kubernetes cluster.
-   `kmcp deploy`: Deploys your MCP server to a Kubernetes cluster, placing it behind a pre-configured Transport Adapter.
-   `kmcp secrets`: Manages secrets for your MCP server deployment in Kubernetes.

## Architecture

The following diagram illustrates the `kmcp` workflow, from local development to a production deployment in Kubernetes:

```mermaid
graph TD
    subgraph Local Development
        A[Developer] -- kmcp init --> B(MCP Project);
        B -- kmcp add-tool --> B;
        B -- kmcp run --> C{Local MCP Server};
        A -- Edits Code --> B;
    end

    subgraph Production Deployment
        B -- kmcp build --> D[Docker Image];
        D -- kmcp deploy --> E(Kubernetes Cluster);
    end

    subgraph Kubernetes Cluster
        F[kmcp Controller] -- Manages --> G(MCP Server CRD);
        G -- Deploys --> H[Transport Adapter];
        H -- Proxies Traffic --> I[MCP Server Pod];
    end

    A -- Interacts with --> C;
    E -- Contains --> F;
    E -- Contains --> G;
    E -- Contains --> H;
    E -- Contains --> I;
```

## Get started

- [Quick Start](https://kagent.dev/docs/kmcp/quickstart)
- [Installation Guide](https://kagent.dev/docs/kmcp/deploy/install-controller)

## Documentation

The kmcp documentation is available at [kagent.dev/docs/kmcp](https://kagent.dev/docs/kmcp).

## 🤝 Contributing

We welcome contributions! Please see our [Contributing Guide](CONTRIBUTING.md) for details.

Thanks to all contributors!

<a href="https://github.com/kagent-dev/kmcp/graphs/contributors">
  <img src="https://contrib.rocks/image?repo=kagent-dev/kmcp" />
</a>

## 📈 Star History

<a href="https://www.star-history.com/#kagent-dev/kmcp&Date">
 <picture>
   <source media="(prefers-color-scheme: dark)" srcset="https://api.star-history.com/svg?repos=kagent-dev/kmcp&type=Date&theme=dark" />
   <source media="(prefers-color-scheme: light)" srcset="https://api.star-history.com/svg?repos=kagent-dev/kmcp&type=Date" />
   <img alt="Star history of kagent-dev/kmcp over time" src="https://api.star-history.com/svg?repos=kagent-dev/kmcp&type=Date" />
 </picture>
</a>

## 📄 License

Copyright 2025.

Licensed under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the "License");
you may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
You may obtain a copy of the License at

    http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0

Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software
distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS IS" BASIS,
WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied.
See the License for the specific language governing permissions and
limitations under the License.

## 🔗 Resources

- [Model Context Protocol Specification](https://spec.modelcontextprotocol.io/)
- [MCP Documentation](https://modelcontextprotocol.io/)
- [Anthropic's MCP Announcement](https://www.anthropic.com/news/model-context-protocol)
- [FastMCP Python Documentation](https://github.com/jlowin/fastmcp)
